  The package was tested to work on Linux, MacOS, Windows XP and Solaris. 
It should be possible to install and run the package on other versions of
UNIX-like and Windows systems in a similar manner. It is advisable to
install recommended dependencies as well to enjoy the full functionality of
the package. On Windows, all dependencies are required, not recommended. 
GTK+ support was not tested on MacOS, but the package should support it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. UNIX/Linux installation 

  The installation should be performed from the source after the dependencies
described below are satisfied.

- required are header files and libraries (dev/devel) of ImageMagick
- recommended are header files and libraries of GTK2 with dependencies

  On most Linux distributions, these are available as packages in 'rpm' or 'deb' 
format. Hereafter, the examples concern Ubuntu Linux, but other distributions
have similar packages that have only slight naming differences.

  For ImageMagick, you will need to install  'libmagick9-dev' with all 
dependencies using apt-get or synaptic. Alternatively, you can download the 
latest version of ImageMagick from http://www.imagemagick.org and install it 
from source as usual using ./configure && make && make install. The latter will
install the required development files as well.

  The package will function without GTK2, but most of GUI functionality (image
chooser, interactive image display with zoom features etc) will be disabled.
You will need 'libgtk2.0-dev' and dependencies (normally include glib, 
pango-dev, libcairo-dev, atk-dev and some others). Alternatively, all these 
packages can be installed from source available at http://www.gtk.org along
with installation instructions. When installing GTK2, please ensure that you
also install 'pkg-config' as it is used to determine the location of GTK2 
include files and its compile flags. Without this package, GTK2 will not be 
located on your system by the package installer.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. MacOS installation

  Analogously to UNIX/Linux installation, the installation should be performed 
from source using the same technique and dependencies. 

  One can use http://fink.sf.net packages for dependencies or install them from
source as in Linux. The author did not have any opportunity to check if 
GTK-enabled version works on MacOS, but since gtk+2-dev and gtk+2-shlib 
are available from 'fink', it is worth trying. Please remember again, that you
will need 'pkgconfig', also available from 'fink', in order for the
installation script to find your GTK2 includes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Windows installation (tested and pre-compiled on Windows XP)

Whether you are installing a binary package or compiling it from source on
Windows, you will need to have BOTH ImageMagick and GTK2 installed and ADDED to 
your or system-wide PATH variable prior to the package installation.

If you plan to compile the package from source, first follow R instructions on
compiling Windows packages and install all the necessary tools. In this case
it is recommended to install MinGW and MSYS into c:\mingw as this path is hard 
coded into src/Makevars.win of my package (or you will need to edit this file)
You do NOT need MinGW or MSYS if you install the binary package. For the binary 
package, just install the following two packages so that the library could function.

2.1 Installing ImageMagick

ImageMagick is available from http://www.imagemagick.org. Please ensure that you
download ImageMagick-6.x.x-x-Q16-windows-dll.exe (both 16 and dll instead of
8 and static). If you are planning to compile my package from source, select
that you want development files to be installed during the installation of 
ImageMagick. It is strongly recommended to install ImageMagick into a path that 
does NOT contain any spaces. The recommended (and hard coded into src/Makevars.win)
is c:\ImageMagick. If you install into a different path, you will need to edit 
src/Makevars.win. The latter is not required for binary installation.

Finally add the path to ImageMagick to your PATH variable, c:\ImageMagick; or 
similar.

2.2 Installing GTK2

GTK2 for Windows is available from http://gladewin32.sf.net
Please download the latest available release of 'Gtk+/Win32 Development 
Environment' if you plan to compile my package from source, or 'Gtk+/Win32 
Runtime Environment' if you plan to use the binary installation.
Install the above into a path that does not contain spaces. If you compile my
package from source, it is strongly recommended to install it to the same location
where you have your MinGW installed, e.g. c:\mingw

Add the paths to {GTK}/lib and {GTK}/bin to your PATH variable. If you intend to
compile my package from source and you installed GTK2 and MinGW in the directories
other than c:\mingw, you will need to edit src/Makevars.win in my package.

2.3 Installation
Now as both ImageMagick and GTK2 are installed, you can start R GUI and install
binary package as any other. If you compile from source, unpack the source tar.gz
somewhere and if R is in your path you can simply create the package with
'R CMD build --binary'. Then install it as above.

That's about it.


Oleg Sklyar

